src/content/about.md, before:

+++
title = "About"
+++

German born and kiwi raised makes for german precision and quality engineering with the [Kiwi No.8 wire ingenuity](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Number_8_wire). Been in the game since [1981](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1981) seeking the truth, health and wealth[^Balaji Srinivasan] by learning, experimentation and reflection.

Having taken, what I consider, a very traditional career progression in technology, I am now squarely in the realm of people management. My biggest joy comes form learning and sharing what I learned.

While I'm fairly new to sharing my knowledge I hope to use this blog as one of may ways I can improve in this area.

Here is a podcast I was recently interviewed in. {{< youtube V9rkAHkYvHY >}}

You can [request access to my CV here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1cqjoLJCleXYre2YjGKnDsPq-5TdNjEdQ/view?usp=sharing).

[^Balaji Srinivasan]: [Tim Ferris - Balaji Srinivasan](https://tim.blog/2021/03/25/balaji-srinivasan-transcript/)

Commit message:

Applied some spelling and markdown auto fixes and added links to muse

src/content/about.md, after:

+++
title = "About"
+++

German born and kiwi raised makes for german precision and quality engineering with the [Kiwi No.8 wire ingenuity](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Number_8_wire). Been in the game since [1981](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1981) seeking the truth, health and wealth[^Balaji Srinivasan] by learning, experimentation and reflection.

Having taken, what I consider, a very traditional career progression in technology, I am now squarely in the realm of people management. My biggest joy comes form learning and sharing what I learned.

While I'm fairly new to sharing my knowledge I hope to use this blog as one of may ways I can improve in this area.
Check out my [Muse](/muse) where I draw most of my inspirations and insights from.

Here is a podcast I was recently interviewed in. {{< youtube V9rkAHkYvHY >}}

You can [request access to my CV here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1cqjoLJCleXYre2YjGKnDsPq-5TdNjEdQ/view?usp=sharing).

[^Balaji Srinivasan]: [Tim Ferris - Balaji Srinivasan](https://tim.blog/2021/03/25/balaji-srinivasan-transcript/)
